cloud: add a new article about migration job (#11117)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md

## Prerequisites

Before performing the migration, you need to check the data sources, prepare privileges for upstream and downstream databases, and set up network connections.

### Make sure your data source and version are supported

Data Migration supports the following data sources and versions:

- MySQL 5.6, 5.7, and 8.0 local instances or on a public cloud provider. Note that MySQL 8.0 is still experimental on TiDB Cloud and might have incompatibility issues.
- AWS Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
- AWS RDS MySQL 5.7

### Grant required privileges to the upstream database

The username you use for the upstream database must have all the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |

> | `RELOAD` | Global |

Author: ```suggestion
| `LOCK` | Tables |
```

| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |

For example, you can use the following `GRANT` statement to grant corresponding privileges:

```sql

> GRANT SELECT,RELOAD,REPLICATION SLAVE,REPLICATION CLIENT,LOCK TABLES,PROCESS ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'

Author: ```suggestion
GRANT SELECT,LOCK TABLES,REPLICATION SLAVE,REPLICATION CLIENT, ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'
```

```

### Grant required privileges to the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster

The username you use for the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|

> | `CREATE` | Databases, Tables |
> | `SELECT` | Tables |
> | `INSERT` | Tables |
> | `UPDATE` | Tables |
> | `DELETE` | Tables |
> | `ALTER`  | Tables |
> | `DROP`   | Databases, Tables |
> | `INDEX`  | Tables |

Author: ```suggestion
| `CREATE` | Databases, Tables |
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `INSERT` | Tables |
| `UPDATE` | Tables |
| `DELETE` | Tables |
| `ALTER`  | Tables |
| `DROP`   | Databases, Tables |
| `INDEX`  | Tables |
| `TRUNCATE`  | Tables |
```

For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement to grant corresponding privileges:

```sql

> GRANT CREATE,SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER,DROP,INDEX ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'

Author: ```suggestion
GRANT CREATE,SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER,TRUNCATE,DROP,INDEX ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'
```

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

> summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in AWS Aurora, AWS RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
```

> summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in AWS Aurora, AWS RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
```

---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

> This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (AWS Aurora or AWS RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud directly using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

Author: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL and Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud directly using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

> This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (AWS Aurora or AWS RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud directly using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora or Amazon RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud directly using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

> This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL and Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud directly using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

> This feature allows you to migrate your application data and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions) within a short downtime window.

Reviewer: 来自 @Frank945946 
```suggestion
This feature allows you to migrate your application data and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions) with minimal downtime
```

Reviewer 2: "databases’ existing data and on going changes"  instead of "application data and its ongoing changes " @hfxsd

## Limitations

> 

Reviewer 3: Please help indicate that this Data Migration feature is not available for Serverless Tier clusters.

Author: ok added.

> - Currently, the Data Migration feature is in public beta, and each organization can create only one migration job. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: 公开出来的文档都是 public 的，只写 beta 即可
```suggestion
- Currently, the Data Migration feature is in beta, and you can create only one migration job for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

- The system databases will be filtered out and not migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate. That is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema`, and `sys` will not be migrated using this feature.

> - The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` and `Singapore (ap-southeast-1)` regions after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` and AWS `Singapore (ap-southeast-1)` regions after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.
```

Reviewer 2: and the feature only be displayed in dedicated tier

- During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an error, it will enable a safe mode. In this mode, the migration job applies the binlogs which are up to 60 seconds before the breakpoint to the target database. In this mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure all the data during the breakpoint has been migrated to the downstream cluster. When the table does not have primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated because the data is inserted repeatedly.

## Prerequisites

Before performing the migration, you need to check the data sources, prepare privileges for upstream and downstream databases, and set up network connections.

### Make sure your data source and version are supported

Data Migration supports the following data sources and versions:

- MySQL 5.6, 5.7, and 8.0 local instances or on a public cloud provider. Note that MySQL 8.0 is still experimental on TiDB Cloud and might have incompatibility issues.

> - AWS Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
> - AWS RDS MySQL 5.7

Author: ```suggestion
- Amazon Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
- Amazon RDS MySQL 5.7
```

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

> This feature allows you to migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions) with minimal downtime

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature allows you to migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions) with minimal downtime.
```

> This feature allows you to migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions) with minimal downtime

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This feature helps you to migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions).
```

后面可以加上，相较于之前的xx方法，DM 不需要你手动地 dump/load 数据，而是可以一键完成所有步骤并持续同步上游数据库的写入。

## Limitations

> - Currently, the Data Migration feature is in beta, and you can create only one migration job for free for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Currently, the Data Migration feature is in beta, and you can create only one migration job **for free** for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

- The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` and AWS `Singapore (ap-southeast-1)` regions after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.

> - The Data Migration feature is available only for Dedicated Tier clusters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The Data Migration feature is available only for **Dedicated Tier** clusters.
```

- The system databases will be filtered out and not migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate. That is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema`, and `sys` will not be migrated using this feature.

- If the table to be migrated already exists in the target database, TiDB Cloud appends the data to the target table directly. If the keys conflict, an error is reported.

- When you delete a cluster in TiDB Cloud, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted and not recoverable.

> - During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an error, it will enable a safe mode. In this mode, the migration job applies the binlogs which are up to 60 seconds before the breakpoint to the target database. In this mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure all the data during the breakpoint has been migrated to the downstream cluster. When the table does not have primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated because the data is inserted repeatedly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it may open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During safe mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure all the data around the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the downstream cluster. When the table does not have primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated because the data is inserted repeatedly.
```

Reviewer 4: 错误重启，safe mode 并不是一定会进入的，取决于 DM 是否正常退出。

> - During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an error, it will enable a safe mode. In this mode, the migration job applies the binlogs which are up to 60 seconds before the breakpoint to the target database. In this mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure all the data during the breakpoint has been migrated to the downstream cluster. When the table does not have primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated because the data is inserted repeatedly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an error, it will enable a safe mode. In this mode, the migration job applies the binlogs that are up to 60 seconds before the breakpoint to the target database. In this mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure all the data during the breakpoint has been migrated to the downstream cluster. For upstream tables without primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the downstream cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly to the downstream.
```

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

> This feature helps you migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions). Compared with previous solutions that require tools such as Dumpling and TiDB Lightning, this feature is more convenient and easier to use. You do not need to manually dump data from the source database and then import it to TiDB Cloud. Instead, you can migrate data directly from the source database to TiDB Cloud in one go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature helps you migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions). Compared with solutions introduced in [Migrate from MySQL-Compatible Databases](/tidb-cloud/migrate-data-into-tidb.md) and [Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases](/tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql.md) that require tools such as Dumpling and TiDB Lightning, this feature is more convenient and easier to use. You do not need to manually dump data from the source database and then import it to TiDB Cloud. Instead, you can migrate data directly from the source database to TiDB Cloud in one go.
```

- The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` and AWS `Singapore (ap-southeast-1)` regions after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.

- The Data Migration feature is available only for **Dedicated Tier** clusters.

- The system databases will be filtered out and not migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate. That is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema`, and `sys` will not be migrated using this feature.

- If the table to be migrated already exists in the target database, TiDB Cloud appends the data to the target table directly. If the keys conflict, an error is reported.

- When you delete a cluster in TiDB Cloud, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted and not recoverable.

> - During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it may open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During the safe mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure that all the data during the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the downstream cluster. For upstream tables without primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the downstream cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly to the downstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it might open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During the safe mode, `INSERT` statements are replicated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are replicated to the downstream cluster to make sure that all the data during the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the downstream cluster. For upstream tables without primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the downstream cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly to the downstream.
```

> - It is recommended that you use Data Migration to migrate a dataset smaller than 1 TiB. If the dataset is larger than 1 TiB, the full data migration will take a long time due to limited specifications. In the following scenarios, do not purge binlogs in the source database to ensure that Data Migration can get consecutive binlogs for incremental replication:
>     - During full data migration
>     - After incremental data migration and the latency is not 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When you use Data Migration, it is recommended to keep the size of your dataset smaller than 1 TiB. If the dataset size is larger than 1 TiB, the full data migration will take a long time due to limited specifications.

    In the following scenarios, do not purge binlogs in the source database to ensure that Data Migration can get consecutive binlogs for incremental replication:

    - During full data migration
    - After incremental data migration and the latency is not 0
```

summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

This feature helps you migrate your database and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions). Compared with solutions introduced in [Migrate from MySQL-Compatible Databases](/tidb-cloud/migrate-data-into-tidb.md) and [Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases](/tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql.md) that require tools such as Dumpling and TiDB Lightning, this feature is easier to use. You do not need to manually dump data from the source database and then import it to TiDB Cloud. Instead, you can migrate data directly from the source database to TiDB Cloud in one go.

## Limitations

> - Currently, the Data Migration feature is in beta, and you can create only one migration job **for free** for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suggested change 
- The Data Migration feature is available only for **Dedicated Tier** clusters.

- Currently, the Data Migration feature is in beta, and you can create only one migration job **for free** for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

- The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` and AWS `Singapore (ap-southeast-1)` regions after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.

> - The Data Migration feature is available only for **Dedicated Tier** clusters.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
